synthesis README (#263)
np-guard/vmware-analyzer: README_Synthesis.md

# Synthesize k8s network policy resources from NSX DFW config

```
Flags:
  -- synthesis-dump-dir         flag to run synthesis; specify directory path to store k8s synthesis results
  -- synth                      flag to run synthesis, even if synthesis-dump-dir is not specified
  -- synth-create-dns-policy    flag to create a policy allowing access to target env dns pod
  -- synthesize-admin-policies  flag to synthesize category environment into admin network policies (which included deny, pass and priority) (default false)
  -- disjoint-hint              comma separated list of NSX groups/tags that are always disjoint in their VM members, 
  needed for an effective and sound synthesis process, can specify more than one hint 
  (example: --disjoint-hint frontend,backend --disjoint-hint app,web,db) 
```

## Overview

> Synthesizes a given `NSX DFW` policy into `k8s network policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool can synthesize a given `NSX DFW` policy into `k8s network policy`.
```

> The result may not be totally equivalent, due to limitations of the target policy; more details regarding the k8s synthesis [here](#limitation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result may not be entirely equivalent, due to limitations of the target policy; more details regarding the k8s synthesis [here](#limitation).
```

There are two main challenges here: 
* *The flattening challenge*: translating prioritized set of rules with actions `allow/deny/jump-to-app` into a flat set of  `allow` rules (which is what k8s network policies support).
* *The intent preserving challenge*: maintain the original semantic intent of the rules
and not just generate a set of rules that preserves the connectivity between VMs given the current state of the configuration.

> ### The flattening challenge

Reviewer: `pass` should be renamed to `jump-to-app` in this section (several times).

Author: Not sure I follow. It should be  `jump-to-app` when referring to `NSX`; but when referring to the synthesized admin policy it should be 'pass'. This seems to be the current state of **The flattening challenge** section

Reviewer: right.. only in the sentence after "to be accurate, the number of allow rules generated ..."

Author: there is no `pass` (or `jump-to-app`) in the section after the sentence you mention; seems we are not on the same page. Perhaps we should take it offline.

There are two modes of policies synthesis, depending on the value of `synthesize-admin-policies`; when
it is not active then priortized `allow, deny, jump-to-app` rules from all `NSX categories` should be synthesized to 
`k8s network policy`, namely, to `flat allow rules`; when it is activated then rules from `NSX category environment` should be synthesized to  
`admin network policy` which rules have `allow, deny, pass` and priority; other categories should be synthesized as

> before to `k8s network policy`. 

Reviewer: this is inaccurate.. all categories up until env (including) are converted to admin policies.
only the last category (application) is converted to network policies,

Author: fixed

1. Ask the user to provide the tool with `hints` -  lists of disjoint tags/groups.
E.g., tags `{frontend, backend}` are disjoint.
In the future it is planned to "guess" these disjoint sets, and ask the user to approve them. E.g., 
for [this example](pkg/data/exampleHint.go) there are two related files: [flat allow rules without hints](pkg/synthesis/tests_expected_output/abstract_models/ExampleHintsDisjoint_NoHint_NoHint.txt)
contains the flat allow rules when executed without hints; and [flat allow rules with hints](pkg/synthesis/tests_expected_output/abstract_models/ExampleHintsDisjoint.txt) 
contains the flat allow when executed with `--disjoint-hint sly, huf, gry, dum1, dum2` 
2. Apply various optimization to simplify the resulting rules and to delete redundant rules; the more accurate hints the
tool is provided, the more concise and readable rules it will synthesize.  

### The policy preserving challenge
The synthesis maintains the original semantic intent of the rules
and not just generates a set of rules that preserves the connectivity between VMs given the current state of the configuration.
For example:

> * When a `frontend` `VM` is added it should be granted the policies defined for the `frontend`

Reviewer: what is a `frontend VM` ? is this a label? the original NSX group?

Author: clarified

* A `DFW` rule that uses an `NSX group` with no `VMs` at the moment of the synthesis,
will still be relevant to maintain in the conversion to network policies.

#### Labeling mechanism
All `VMs'` pods are assumed to be in namespace `default`.
Each `VM`'s  pod is granted labels reflecting the `NSX's` `tags` and `groups`.
`Group: DB`  will be synthesized to `label` `group__DB: "true"`;
`Tag: DB`  will be synthesized to `label` `tag__DB: "true"`.

#### Policy synthesis
To preserve the original intent of the policy, the synthesized policy prioritizes referencing non-ephemeral features.
E.g., it prefers referencing `frontend` label instead of referencing `VMs'` names, or even `VMs' groups`. `VMs` may be deleted and added, while
the `frontend` label is always granted to any `frontend` `VM`.  

> Specifically,  given a rule with `src` defined as group `aaa` which is defined as `tag = backend and tag != DB`,

Reviewer: mixing label with tag concepts, when referring to nsx groups?

Author: clarified

If a group is defined by an expression that we do not yet support, then the synthesized policy will refer just to the group, 
and the relevant *VM*s will be granted labels of this group.

For example, the expression `tag = backend and tag != DB` is supported, while the nested expression
`(tag = backend and tag != DB) or (tag = research) ` is not supported. For a group defined over the former expression,
the synthesis will reference labels corresponding to the above tags' values, while for a group defined over the latter 
expression, the synthesis will reference a label corresponding to the group.

## Output
### Synthesized k8s resource
`k8s_resources` folder under the folder specified in `synthesis-dump-dir` contains the following files:
* **pods.yaml** the list pods (as placeholder for VMs resources for now) with the relevant labels of each pod.
The labels are added based on original VMs' tags and groups in NSX env. 
* **policies.yaml** the k8s policies

The combination of the policies and the pods' labels:
1. Satisfies the snapshot of the connectivity at the time of the synthesis

> 2. Preserve the policy's intent, as expressed e.g. by *tags*, for future changes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Preserves the policy's intent, as expressed e.g. by *tags*, for future changes 
```

(e.g. adding a `VM` or changing its functionality and thus its labeling)

<a id="limitation"></a>
#### limitations

> There are differences in the expression power between `NSX DFW` to `Kubernetes Network Policies`; e.g. `ICMP protocols`
> support depends on the network plugin and is not supported by our synthesis. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are differences in the expression power between `NSX DFW` to `Kubernetes Network Policies`; e.g. `ICMP` protocols
are not supported by `k8s` network policies. 
```

> ## Debugging

Reviewer: the debugging section should be moved maybe to another page or removed.. 
this is produced only from unit tests, not from cli run. 
it may be more relevant to describe here the log with verbose run.

Author: Removed.
We can add an issue for adding a list of warning and their meaning - this is relevant for other components of the tool as well.

# Synthesize k8s policy

> Synthesize a given NSX DFW configuration into an equivalent k8s network policy. 

Author: Ignoring the  `ICMP` connection is not done here but in the collection/parser, and also effects the analysis.
It is not specific to synthesis - is this already documented? best just to refer to that documentation from here.

> Synthesize a given NSX DFW configuration into an equivalent k8s network policy. 

Reviewer: no.. icmp it is not ignored in collector/parser, and it is considered for analysis (maybe you refer to icmpv6).
it is ignored in the generation of network policies, because they do not support this protocol.

```
Flags:
  -- synthesis-dump-dir         flag to run synthesis; specify directory path to store k8s synthesis results
  -- synth                      flag to run synthesis, even if synthesis-dump-dir is not specified
  -- synth-create-dns-policy    flag to create a policy allowing access to target env dns pod
  -- synthesize-admin-policies  flag to synthesize category environment into admin network policies (which included deny, pass and priority) (default false)
  -- disjoint-hint              comma separated list of NSX groups/tags that are always disjoint in their VM members, 
  needed for an effective and sound synthesis process, can specify more than one hint 
  (example: \"--" + disjointHintsFlag + " frontend,backend --" + disjointHintsFlag + " app,web,db\") 
```

## Overview
Synthesize a given NSX DFW policy into an equivalent k8s network policy.
There are two main challenges here: 
* *The flattening challenge*: translating prioritize _allow/deny/pass_ into flat allow rules (which is what k8s network policies support)

> * *The intent preserving challenge*: maintain the original semantic intent of the rules, and not just synthesis a snapshot. 

Author: I think the example of empty group is too esoteric. We can perhaps have it as a 2nd example. An example in which a new frontend VM is added is more appropriate here, I believe.

> * *The intent preserving challenge*: maintain the original semantic intent of the rules, and not just synthesis a snapshot. 

Reviewer: ok, please rephrase.

> * *The intent preserving challenge*: maintain the original semantic intent of the rules, and not just synthesis a snapshot. 

Author: This is just the header; I don't think an example is needed here. I can add this example in the relevant section.

This is important since e.g. once a new VM as added with the relevant tags/labels it be granted the desired connectivity.

### The flattening challenge
The translation of priortized allow/deny/pass rules into flat allow rules is exponential in the number of terms of the

> original rules (to be accurate, the number of allow rules generated for each original allow rule is

Reviewer: it is not defined what are the terms of the original rules.

exponential in the number of term in this allow rule and in higher priority deny and pass rules). To tackle this we:
1. Ask the user to provide the tool with _hints_ -  lists of disjoint tags/groups.
E.g., tags _{frontend, backend}_ are disjoint.
In the future it is planned to "guess" these
disjoint sets, and ask the user to approve them.

> 2. Apply various optimization to simplify the resulting rules and to rid redundant rules; the more accurate hints the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Apply various optimization to simplify the resulting rules and to delete redundant rules; the more accurate hints the
```

> tool is provided, the more concise and readable rules it will synthesize.  

Reviewer: please add example here how this can be run with input hints + add link to output conversion with and without such hints.

Author: done

Author: The example is already provided above, when the synthesis flags are mentioned.
Example of results with and without hints added

### The policy preserving challenge
To preserve the original intent of the policy, the synthesized policy refers, where possible, to permanent labeling such
as tags - e.g. _front-end_ - and not to temporarily labeling such as _VM_ names. E.g., a specific rule's _src_ is
 defined to be group _aaa_ that is defined as _tag = backend_ and _tag != DB_ then the synthesized policy will refer to the value

> of the tag.

Reviewer: please rephrase this long sentence. break into shorter sentences, such as intro explaining the group's expression, then referring to the fw rule...

## Currently supported

> Currently, the tool supports groups defined by expressions over tags; nested expression are not yet supported.

Reviewer: please give an example of nested expression that is not supported, and example of simple example that is supported.

If a group is defined 
by an expression that we do not yet support, then the synthesized policy will refer just to the group, and the 

> relevant *VM*s will be granted labels of this group. In the following releases we will expend our expressions support. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
relevant *VM*s will be granted labels of this group. 
```

Author: Why do you want this comment removed?

Reviewer: this is not the place to commit what is going to be supported.

## Output

> _k8s_resources_ dir under the dir specified in _synthesis-dump-dir_ contains the following files:

Reviewer: general comment : please use `this style` instead of _this_

Author: done

> * **pods.yaml** the list of synthesized _VM's_ _pods_ with the labels of each pos  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **pods.yaml** the list pods (as place holder for VMs resources for now) with the relevant labels of each pod.
The labels are added based on original VMs' tags and groups in NSX env. 
```

* **policies.yaml** the k8s policies

The combination of the policies and the pods' labels:
1. Satisfies the snapshot of the connectivity at the time of the synthesis
2. Preserve the policy's intent, as expressed e.g. by *tags*, for future changes 
(e.g. adding a _VM_ or changing its functionality and thus its labeling)

> 

Reviewer: also explain the admin network policy flag , add example run, etc..

Author: 1. The admin policy flag is explained in the `Flags` list in the beginning of this README
2. I added explanation regarding  admin network policies when discussing the flattening challenge, which is more suitable, I think
